So, next up we have a very important talk from Svetan, who runs a company you may have
heard of.
They build the awesome little single board computers and they have been automating much
of their production line that uses KICAD.
This will give an introduction to how to do this on your end as well.
So please give a warm welcome to Svetan.
Thank you.
Okay, today I will share some scripts which we use to make our production more efficient
and which you can also use.
I am Svetan, the owner of OleMX.
OleMX is a company in Bulgaria which is dealing with electronic design, production of electronic
products and we have about 1,000 different originally designed by us products and which
we do this for more than 30 years and we produce everything in both in Bulgaria.
Most of our products are open source hardware.
So the design process is always fun.
You create something, you challenge your brain, it's very satisfactory when you solve something
which you think it's impossible to solve and this gives you a great satisfaction.
At least with me it's always this.
It's always fun, it's always challenging and give you a great satisfaction of the creativity
but later is the production process which is boring stuff.
You do repetitive boring stuff which doesn't bring you any challenge.
But if you don't do it correctly there is a disaster and financial penalty for every
mistake you do in the production.
And why we do water than to manufacture?
I don't want you to just design the electronics because this is the only way we can pay our
bills.
When you have a final product actually you monetize your designs and what you are doing.
So here I will just mention what can go wrong when you produce electronics.
First stage is components apply problems and this is something which doesn't depend on
you.
Actually you cannot do much about it but there might be differences between the components
from the different lots.
And for instance even one single capacitor sometimes you can receive it a little bit lighter,
a little bit darker, a little bit yellowish, a little bit brownish, a little bit reddish.
And I will say what big deal this is just color change but all the inspection equipment
take pictures of the boards and compare pictures and when the component has different color
it recognizes like different components.
So the inspection starts to get the false alarms and you have to update all your libraries
every time you get the component with different color.
Even one and the same components if it comes from different vendors they can put it with
a different orientation inside the tape.
So if you just realize that everything is the same like the previous batch you are in
trouble it will be not assembled correctly on the PCB.
Different component marks.
Recently we got LED.
If you ever assemble LED you will know that on the back of the LED there is a green dot
which shows the cutout or anode.
This is you can the pure decision of the vendor.
Some put it on the cutout, some put it on the...
So when you assemble your LED's vice versa with 180 degree they simply don't work like
expected.
And of course there is a lot of fake components and the major problem with the fake components
is that they never come 100% fake.
The dealers of the fake components they are very innovative.
They mix for instance 5% fake components with 95% original components so when you assemble
the boards you just find that 5% doesn't work like expected.
And you start to think that maybe you did something wrong but basically it's because
of the components.
So all these problems have a solution.
You can make a procedure when components come to your storage you never put them in the
storage without first testing them.
Check the component orientation, check the component color, check the size variation and
this is predictable and this is something you can handle.
The second problem is with the operators.
We are humans we do mistakes and we are not machines.
We don't work the same way in the morning and later afternoon because you get tired or
you have some problems in the house or you play tennis the previous day and your leg
is hurting and this is just distracting you from the work you do with the machine and
if you do mistake it multiplies immediately.
Every hour with hundreds of scrap boards manufactured.
So to be effective in the production there is major two problems to solve.
First one is how fast you can move from the CAD program to the machine program.
And the second is once this is set up how quickly you can change between the different
PCBs which are already stored in the machine memories.
This is one typical production flow for electronic production.
You have to have the components then they go through the solder press printer then they
are inspected then you go through the SMP placer again inspection, oven inspection through
whole component inspection and test.
And the challenge to generate these programs for these machines is that they are usually
five or six different machines which are made by different vendors and they have different
ideas about the software, about the libraries, about the component names and when you add
this to the stocking and to the CAD libraries you actually have to find the quick way to
align and to alias that this component which is in the key CAD is that component is your
stock and it has three or four different libraries which has to be associated with this component
on every machine.
This is very time consuming and usually one operator is getting the files from the CAD
and start manually to associate these components with the different machines.
This is a problem because these machines have to assemble they don't have to stay and be
in programming because machine time is money.
If you keep your machines without producing you are not effective.
The second challenge is the changeover.
As I said people always do mistakes it's not avoidable.
So we just have to find a way how to minimize these mistakes.
For the last 30 years we are trying to improve our process and this doesn't mean we don't
do mistakes.
We do a lot of mistakes but we try every time we do something wrong to analyze what is the
cause for this problem and to take some corrective actions so we don't do the same mistake again.
And the only possible solution for this is to have a computer assistance to all steps
where humans are involved.
If the computer help the people they do again mistakes but at least they know that they do
mistakes and correct them.
Kick-out is proven to be a nice tool to do this job.
Why?
Because it's totally open and always flexibility and we can extract from kick-out all the PCB
parameters all the component properties.
Every information we need to do the proper programming on our assembly machines.
But of course for this purpose we had to reverse engineer the file formats of all machines
we have on the assembly lines.
This is still work on progress because we have machines from Samsung, from Sony, from
Omron, NPM and as I said every machine has different file formats.
You have to experiment and to see what exactly is this file format and what you have to
put inside it.
And this is how our script is looking.
We have an Olimax plugin.
When we start the plugin we have this screen and we can select the PCB orientation.
Why?
We need the PCB orientation because some machines work from left to right.
Some works from right to left.
Some can be operated from the front.
Some can be said to be operated from the back.
And every time you change this you have to change your origin of the PCB.
Then we can pick if we want to have the components which has property to be excluded from the
bone, to be excluded from the position file or to detect not assembly which feature I
understand is available in the new version of Kikat.
And the variant properties because one PCB can be used in many products.
For instance you have one PCB with different variation, different memory footprints, industrial
version components, commercial components.
And this generates the files for all the variants of the board we can manufacture with one PCB.
And of course this is what to export.
When we run the scripts it creates this JSON file which creates all the necessary info
inside and then we import it in our JSON ERP.
This is something we created for our internal use.
This is general information about the board.
Kikat is generating preview for the top and bottom of the board.
And we have automatic match for the components from Kikat to our stocking.
If I was in the marketing I would say we use artificial intelligence but I'm just an engineer
so I'm just saying this is just fact.
Here we have preview and we can go through the bone and see visually every component
where it goes on the PCB.
And then we can select from the drop down menu for which machine we want to generate
the programming and we get a native program for the machine which you can load the machine
and it starts working without wasting time to associate components to teach libraries
and so on.
We did the same for the changeovers.
Here you can select from the bone, for instance this board has two machines in line and we
can select and copy which component on which machine we want to be assembled.
So the recap is that since we start using this scripting we multiply times increased
or productivity with the production because otherwise it takes days to build all the machine
programs manually.
Now you see you just click on the drop down menu I want to have file for the printer or
file for the placer or file for the optical inspection and it single click it generates
the files and you load the machine and it starts assembling.
With the changeovers there is no significant speed up but it helps to do less errors.
That's it pretty much.
Before you made all these custom tools how did the vendors of these machines expect you
to use them?
Like are they expecting you to do everything manually or do they have their own set of
tools?
You can do all this association in the machines but you are losing production time because
when you program these machines they don't work and they have some tools which are for
importing for panelization and etc. but it's done in different way for every machine.
So it's very troublesome for the operators to remember how this machine was programming
what I have to select this or that and now with single click they get the text file,
load to the machine and it works.
So there are a number of other companies that do similar things and they all have different
machines so the question is what kind of data format do you have internally that other people
can then write converters from for their own machines?
We start from the kick-up.
From the kick-up we can extract every component property, rotation, library name, etc.
And from there we see with the reverse engineer for what this machine is expecting to receive
like a file and like an info and we just make the bond between the two.
So it's, we didn't intend to make it universally for any machines just for the machines which
we have in use.
So why do the companies selling these machines just don't care? So why is there no kind of
import?
Because there is no coordination between the different components. For instance Samsung
has one concept how to look the menus, how to look the user interface and this is decided
by their engineers. They have no clue what Sony is doing or what Yamaha is doing or every
engineer in every company has different concepts, how to name the components, how to place the
libraries and it's unavailable that they don't do joint development to match their.
And basically when you buy the machine you start to learn how to program it, how to do
that. There is a huge books where everything is described but it is totally different
on every machine.
Were you contacted by any manufacturer that says well, we're, no, have you been contacted
by any manufacturer of machines that say oh we just have done that already. Here is our
importer from Kaikets.
No.
Is there any manufacturer you know of that does anything like that?
I don't think they use Kikat or they know of it.
This is just solution for our case. We use Kikat, we use also Eagle for legacy boards
which are produced before we start using but we found that in Eagle we don't have so much
access to all the resources on the design like in Kikat. So this is why Kikat is so flexible
and so easy to fit in our goals.
So my question is, is your plug-in open source as well because I think it's kind of interesting
the whole reversing theory of some...
If this plug-in is later embedded in Kikat, we don't have a problem with this.
I think perhaps separate out the kind of reversing during part of it to have people support more
machines could be super interesting.
Yeah.
Hi, you mentioned that you have optical inspection and changing with colors of capacitors. So
when you have these scripts that generate the files for all of your machines, do they
have sample pictures for all of your components? Which additional data do you have along besides
the Kikat libraries?
This is unavoidable because they just, for the optical inspection, for the moment we
just prepare the file and prepare the libraries and then the optical inspection can take different
pictures for one and same components and you say this is the variance of these components
so you just add them to the libraries and next time they can scan between the different
variants. But this is not done in the script. The script just makes the positions, the
few usuals and other info for the optical inspection.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
So I think there were some additional questions. So Svetan, if you're available in the hallway
the additional questions can be face to face.